# Gitness
Your lightweight, super fast code hosting and continuous integration service (powered by Drone)

Gitness is building on top of Drone to create a new, open source developer platform with code hosting and pipeline capabilities. Gitness development is taking place in the `master` branch.  Drone development will continue in the `drone` branch until we a ready for our first tagged Gitness release, at which point the project will fully converge.

For more information on Gitness, please visit [gitness.com](https://gitness.com/).
For more information on Drone, please visit [drone.io](https://www.drone.io/)

# Using Docker
The latest publicly released docker image can be found on [harness/gitness](https://hub.docker.com/r/harness/gitness).
To try it out, run the command below. Once the container is running, you can visit localhost:3000 in your browser.

``` bash
docker run \
  -p 3000:3000 \
  -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
  -v /tmp/gitness:/data \
  harness/gitness:latest
```
> The Gitness image uses a volume to store the database and repositories. It is highly recommended to use a bind mount or named volume as otherwise all data will be lost once the contaner is stopped.

# Pre-Requisites

Install the latest stable version of Node and Go version 1.19 or higher, and then install the below Go programs. Ensure the GOPATH [bin directory](https://go.dev/doc/gopath_code#GOPATH) is added to your PATH.

Install protobuf
- Check if you've already installed protobuf ```protoc --version```
- If your version is different than v3.21.11, run ```brew unlink protobuf```
- Get v3.21.11 ```curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/homebrew-core/9de8de7a533609ebfded833480c1f7c05a3448cb/Formula/protobuf.rb > /tmp/protobuf.rb```
- Install it ```brew install /tmp/protobuf.rb```
- Check out your version ```protoc --version```

Install protoc-gen-go and protoc-gen-go-rpc:

- Install protoc-gen-go v1.28.1 ```go install google.golang.org/protobuf/cmd/protoc-gen-go@v1.28.1```
(Note that this will install a binary in $GOBIN so make sure $GOBIN is in your $PATH)

- Install protoc-gen-go-grpc v1.2.0 ```go install google.golang.org/grpc/cmd/protoc-gen-go-grpc@v1.2.0```

```bash
$ make dep
$ make tools
```

# Build

Build the user interface:

```bash
$ pushd web
$ yarn install
$ yarn build
$ popd
```

Build the server and command line tools:

```bash
$ make build
```

# Run

This project supports all operating systems and architectures supported by Go.  This means you can build and run the system on your machine; docker containers are not required for local development and testing.

Start the server at `localhost:3000`

```bash
./gitness server .local.env
```

# User Interface

This project includes a full user interface for interacting with the system. When you run the application, you can access the user interface by navigating to `http://localhost:3000` in your browser.

# Swagger

This project includes a swagger specification. When you run the application, you can access the swagger specification by navigating to `http://localhost:3000/swagger` in your browser (for raw yaml see `http://localhost:3000/openapi.yaml`).


## Auto-Generate Gitness API Client used by UI using Swagger
Please make sure to update the autogenerated client code used by the UI when adding new rest APIs.

To regenerate the code, please execute the following steps:
- Run local gitness instance with latest changes
- Get latest OpenAPI specs from `http://localhost:3000/openapi.yaml` and store it in `web/src/services/code/swagger.yaml`

The latest API changes should now be reflected in `web/src/services/code/index.tsx`

# REST API
Please refer to the swagger for the specification of our rest API.

For testing, it's simplest to execute operations as the default user `admin` using a PAT:
```bash
# LOGIN (user: admin, pw: changeit)
$ ./gitness login

# GENERATE PAT (1 YEAR VALIDITY)
$ ./gitness user pat "my-pat-uid" 2592000
```

The command outputs a valid PAT that has been granted full access as the user.
The token can then be send as part of the `Authorization` header with Postman or curl:

```bash
$ curl http://localhost:3000/api/v1/user \
-H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN"
```


# CLI
This project includes VERY basic command line tools for development and running the service. Please remember that you must start the server before you can execute commands.

For a full list of supported operations, please see
```bash
$ ./gitness --help
```
